WIP | Document CI / Devop pipelines (#1731)
ros-planning/navigation2: doc/continuous_integration/circleci.md

> # CircleCI Documentation

Reviewer: This file doesn't cover the topics:
- Artifacts, how is that setup and where are they saved to
- For all sections after workflows, it usually skips over explaining the breakdown of the cron jobs for nightly / dockerhub and only discusses the PR builder (e.x. jobs, executors, commands, steps)
- Matrix, for the nightly

Reviewer: On this file, I think it would be useful to take a step back and not miss the forest for the trees. It does a good job at introducing some circle CI concepts (that I'd like to just be completed from my comments), but in some ways it doesn't really explain the specific navigation2 use of CircleCI; which mostly just just about the 3 workflows (what they do, when they run, why they run, their general description of steps) that is generally missing or overlooked in favor of explaining the components they're made of abstractly.

CircleCI is a service used to build and test the project's codebase to catch regressions as well as to check pull request submissions. Using continuous integration helps maintainers sustain high code quality while providing external contributors a well defined evaluation method with which to validate contributions, even without having to setup a local development environment. More info on CircleCI can be found here:

* [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/)
* [Navigation2 on CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/ros-planning/navigation2)

> For this particular CI, Docker is used to build and test the project within containers derived from images pulled from DockerHub, bootstrapping the CI with a development environment including pre configured dependencies and warm workspace build caches. View the accompanying DockerFile and DockerHub documentation for more info on this accompanying CI setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this particular CI, Docker is used to build and test the project within containers derived from images pulled from DockerHub, bootstrapping the CI with a development environment including pre-configured dependencies and warm workspace build caches. View the accompanying DockerFile and DockerHub documentation for more info on this accompanying CI setup.
```

* [Dockerfile](dockerfile.md)
* [DockerHub](dockerhub.md)

> CircleCI is configured via the [config.yml](/.circleci/config.yml) yaml file within the `.circleci/` folder at the root of the GitHub repo.  The config file for this project is self-contained and thus densely structured, yet written in a functional style to remain DRY and modular. This keeps it easily generalizable for other ROS packages or for adjusting overlayed workspaces. Despite the anchors and references in yaml, the config file is best approached in reverse, from bottom to top in order of abstraction hierarchy, while reading this accompanied document. Further references on CircleCI configurations, such as syntax and structure can be found here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI is configured via the [config.yml](/.circleci/config.yml) yaml file within the `.circleci/` folder at the root of the GitHub repo.  The config file for this project is self-contained and thus densely structured, yet written in a functional style to remain DRY and modular. This keeps it easily generalizable for other ROS packages or for adjusting overlayed workspaces. Despite the anchors and references in yaml, the config file is best understood read in reverse, from bottom to top, in order of abstraction hierarchy, while reading this accompanied document. Further references on CircleCI configurations, such as syntax and structure can be found here:
```

* [Writing YAML](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/writing-yaml)
* [Configuring CircleCI](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference)

## Workflows

> The CI config consists of three main [workflows](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#workflows). One workflow is for checking PR events, essentially triggered by any pushed commits targeting the main branch, by building and testing the project both in release and debug mode for accurate performance benchmarking or generating test coverage results. The second is nightly cron scheduled to check the main branch, while additionally testing a matrix of supported RMW vendors not tested on normal PRs. This helps prioritize CI to quickly check new contributions, while simultaneously keeping tabs on the health of existing code. The third is another cron for updating CI image builds on DockerHub, and is scheduled to finish prior to the nightly workflow. This reduces the chance of updating CI images while a CI workflow is in progress.

Reviewer: The first workflow I think covers both PRs to test them and then also the main branch after merging for the new code introduction. That should be mentioned specifically. 

On the third item, I thought that cron job was setup in Dockerhub? I assume we moved it over here at some point, that makes sense then your dockerhub trigger API references in the dockerhub section. Please make sure you close that loop in the dockerhub page

> The order in which jobs are executed is conditional upon the completion of those it [requires](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#requires), forming a conventional directed acyclic graph of dependent jobs. Independent jobs may of course be parallelized in the CI pipeline; so by splitting the build and test jobs in two, multiple test jobs, such as the matrix of RMW tests, may commence as soon as the dependent build job completes, avoiding unnecessarily re-building the same codebase for each RMW vendor.

Reviewer: Be specific here, why are you talking about this? You should tell the reader why how you're using the `requires` in each of the 3 use cases you highlight in the paragraph above. Clearly one is for the 4 build/test jobs for the main CI situation. You abstractly say that it "may of course be parallelized in the CI pipeline", so tell them why you're bringing this up at all - you're leveraging that feature to speed up the pipelines by having many running jobs in parallel. Specifically go over that design for the 3 cases since this is the reference guide for our CircleCI setup. "We use this in the PR workflow by.... We use this in the nightly workflow by... etc"

## Jobs

> The list of [jobs](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#jobs) referenced within the workflows consist of either release or debug build/test jobs. These jobs are largely similar with the exception of using different executors, and that debug test jobs include additional command steps for reporting code coverage analytics. The build jobs simply checkout the project, set up the build environment, and compile the project. The test jobs in turn pick up from where the build job left off by restoring the build, and then running the test on that build.

Reviewer: A hyperlink to the docs on "executors" would be good to be consistent with your other ones like jobs/workflows

Reviewer: You gloss over how the build and test steps share the built workspace to test on, please go into detail about that.

Reviewer: A new paragraph talking 1-2 sentences about the nightly jobs and dockerhub cron job would be good references to round it off

> In addition to enabling parallelism between independent jobs, the bifurcation build and test job types enables [parallelism](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#parallelism) within each test job, leveraged later for splitting longer tests across multiple containers for that job. Given packages independencies, container parallelism for build jobs is not as easily applicable, and thus only used for testing.

Reviewer: "leveraged later for splitting longer tests across multiple containers for that job" where do we do that?

Reviewer: Honestly, I'm not sure what this paragraph is trying to communicate or if it aids in explaining the concept of jobs and how we use them in Circle

## Executors

Two different [executors](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#executors-requires-version-21) are used to define the environment in which the steps of a job will be run, one for debug and one for release builds. Given only the release executor is used in testing the full matrix of RMW vendors, the docker images for the debug executor merely include the default RMW; sparing debug jobs the time in compiling unused RMW vendors in debug testing.

The executors also differ by a few environment variables. These include appropriate mixin flags for the workspace builds and an additional nonce string, unique to that executor, used in deriving the hash key for saving and restoring caches. This prevents cache key collisions or cross talk between parallel jobs using different executors in the same workflow.

## Commands

To reuse sequences of steps across multiple jobs, a number of [commands](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#commands-requires-version-21) are defined.

> When checking our source code from the repo, additional pre and post checkout steps are performed to prepare the file system. When setting up dependencies, the build is prepared much the same way as in the project Dockerfile, by first setting up the underlay and then the overlay workspace. Additional steps are included for restoring and resetting previous ccache files and statistics, including a few diagnostic steps that can be used for debugging the CI itself, e.g. investigating as to why the hit rate for ccache may be abnormally low. Once the overlay setup is finished, more ccache diagnostics and files are saved for inspection or later restoration. A restore build command is also defined for test jobs, operating under the condition that a workspace with the same checksum can be restored from a previous build job in the workflow. Additional commands are also defined for steps in testing the overlay workspace and reporting coverage results.

Reviewer: This paragraph would be benefited from explaining the why there's caching in both the docker images and in circle CI, why not just do one? Why not just have circle just build the dockerfile? (those kinds of questions are open and unanswerwed)

### Building

For installing and building workspaces, the process resembles that within the project Dockerfile. Additional bookkeeping is performed to update the workspace checksum file by piping stdout that deterministically describes the state of the build environment. This is done by seeding from the checksum of the underlay workspace and then appending info about source code checked out into the overlay workspace, as well as the list of required dependencies installed. When setting up the workspace, this checksum will first be used to check if the workspace can be restored from a prior workflow build. If the source code or required dependencies change, resulting in a missed cache hit, the unfinished workspace is then built. If the workspace build is successful then it will be cached. Regardless however, the build logs are always uploaded as stored artifacts for review or debugging. The odd shuffling of symbolic directories is done as a workaround given a limitation of the S3 SDK: 

* [Failing to upload artifacts from symbolic link directories](https://discuss.circleci.com/t/failing-to-upload-artifacts-from-symbolic-link-directories/28000)

### Testing

> For testing workspaces, the list of packages within the workspace are [tested in parallel](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/parallelism-faster-jobs/) across the number of replicated containers for the given test job as denoted by the `parallelism` option. Here packages are split by anticipated test timing; the heuristic derived from the reported duration and classname of prior recent test results. The logs and results from the tests are then always [reported](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_test_results) and uploaded.

Reviewer: You say that in testing, different packages are in different containers, is that true? Where is that defined?
